Welcome to “Impact of Big Data” After watching this video, you will be able
to: List examples of Big Data related technologies. Explain the impact of Big Data on businesses
and people. Describe the Internet of Things (IoT) and
its impact on Big Data. Big Data is one of the most important subjects
of this century. Yet globally, millions of people are generating
and using Big Data without necessarily being aware of it. This personal data in the form of photos,
videos, and text that people send to each other forms the bulk of data collected by
consumer goods companies. So, it is interesting to consider how Big
Data is impacting businesses and people. Have you ever searched for or bought a product
on Amazon? Did you notice that Amazon’s recommendations
are based on what the users have searched for, have bought in the past, the items
they have in the virtual shopping cart, items they have rated and liked, and what other
customers have viewed and purchased. Companies like Amazon, Netflix and Spotify
use algorithms based on big data to make specific recommendations based on customer preferences
and historical behavior. Recommendation engines are a common application
of Big Data. Personal assistants like Siri on Apple devices,
or Alexa on Amazon devices, use Big Data to devise answers to the infinite number of questions
end-users may ask. These assistants use some of the most advanced
neural networks ever made. This allows them to process speech into text
and translate text into complex tasks that can be carried out across multiple applications
within that device. Sources of Big Data collected for these actions
include not only personal data and preferences on-device and in the cloud, but also external
factors. Google Now, for example, makes recommendations
before users ask for them, especially when it is linked to the users’ calendars and
location and sensing is enabled on the user’s phone. Google Now knows where the user is, and where
they need to be. It can tell users about things like  traffic
or the weather before they even ask for it. In this instance, the collection of Big Data
is used to forecast future needs and behavior. Now that we have an idea of how consumers
are using Big Data, let's take a look at how Big Data is impacting businesses.
Clive Humby went as far as to call data the “New Oil” and Geoffrey Moore compared
the value of data to our senses of sight and hearing. Big Data is fundamentally changing the way
businesses compete and operate. Complex and powerful machine learning algorithms
drive business decisions that ultimately increase effectiveness. In recent years the annual demand for data
scientists and Big Data engineers is increasing significantly, and the Big Data skillset remains
highly valuable to businesses. The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to a system
of physical objects that are connected through the Internet. A “thing or device” can include a smart
device in our homes, or a personal communication device such as a smartphone or computer. These collect and transfer massive amounts
of data over the Internet without any manual intervention by using embedded technologies All of these devices gather, analyze, share,
and transmit data in real time. Without Big Data, IoT devices would not hold
the functionalities and capabilities which have gained them so much attention globally. Following Statista’s forecast, we will
see four times more IoT devices than the total number of the entire world population by 2030. Let’s look at major components of the IoT
ecosystem. An Internet-enabled connected network of systems,
that comprise smart devices and sensors, constantly produce and transmit a variety of data. This Big Data is passed through a Gateway
that routes it to its destined storage in the Cloud. Data Engineers use sophisticated algorithms
to make sense of this collected Big Data and compile it into an analytical form that can
be interpreted by humans. The analyzed data is then used to make business
and consumer decisions to enhance the customer experience and to enhance productivity. For example, a security camera could continually
upload footage, and a cloud-based big data algorithm may alert the user if any activity
is detected. In this video, you learned that: Big Data is everywhere and is being collected
and used to drive business decisions and influence people’s lives. Virtual personal assistants like Siri on Apple
devices, or Alexa on Amazon devices, use Big Data to devise answers to the infinite number
of questions end-users may ask. Google Now impacts people through using Big
Data to forecast future needs and behavior. Internet of Things (IoT) devices continually
generate massive volumes of data; and Big Data analytics helps companies gain insights
from the data collected by IoT devices.